---
title: "0010"
who: Wolf Cub

link: http://www.straylandings.co.uk/post/30724994842
author:
image: http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7092/7169878527_284ec9e248_z.jpg
blockquote: Having followed Wolf Cub for quite a while now we thought it was only appropriate to invite him to provide a mix in our series. Wolf Cub operates as member of Transmission Collective, working together with the likes of Medla and Lohko to add support to each others work. The Leeds residing producer has recently signed two silky smooth house cuts to UK label FAT! Records, which will be available from the 3rd September. Entitled _Desverre_ and _Roland Garros_ the two tracks highlight Wolf Cub’s finely tuned, stylish take on house music, while remaining playful and dancefloor ready.
---

Having followed Wolf Cub for quite a while now we thought it was only appropriate to invite him to provide a mix in our series. Wolf Cub operates as member of Transmission Collective, working together with the likes of Medla and Lohko to add support to each others work. The Leeds residing producer has recently signed two silky smooth house cuts to UK label FAT! Records, which will be available from the 3rd September. Entitled _Desverre_ and _Roland Garros_ the two tracks highlight Wolf Cub’s finely tuned, stylish take on house music, while remaining playful and dancefloor ready.

Wolf Cub’s edition of our mix series is a vibe laden affair, mixing retro tinged house from the likes of George Fitzgerald, Joy O and Bicep. The mix also features both the tracks from his FAT! release, as well as the subject of one of our recent reviews _Runner_ by Cownie.

_Tracklist_

  1. Cownie // Runner [Unreleased]
  2. Kool Vibe // I Want It [Traxx Underground]
  3. Cherie Lee // Love Me Or Leave Me (Club Dub) [Music Station] 
  4. The Deep // Love Your Brother [Basenotic Records]
  5. Bondax // Baby I Got That (Justin Martin Remix) [Just Us Records]
  6. Mic Newman // Forever In My Chart [Tsuba Records]
  7. George Fitzgerald // Child [Aus] 
  8. Bicep // Don’t [Aus]
  9. Wolf Cub // Desverre [FAT!]
  10. Joy O // Ellipsis [Hinge Finger]
  11. Wolf Cub // Roland Garros [FAT!]

[Subscribe in iTunes](itpc://straylandings.jellycast.com/podcast/feed/2)