---
title: "0016"
who: Dom 877
link: http://www.straylandings.co.uk/post/42434175931
author: Theo Darton-Moore
image: http://farm9.staticflickr.com/8079/8450000223_d7ca8ab045_z.jpg
blockquote: 'In the early days of pirate radio, shout outs would be given by the last three digits of the number texting in. Such is where 877 Records took their name from, the label fronted by by Dom Hughes, has been moving from strength to strength, releasing work by the likes of GoldFFinch, My Nu Leng, Pasteman & Tanka.'
image_upload: ""
---
In the early days of pirate radio, shout outs would be given by the last three digits of the number texting in. Such is where 877 Records took their name from, the label fronted by by Dom Hughes, has been moving from strength to strength, releasing work by the likes of GoldFFinch, My Nu Leng, Pasteman & Tanka.

The label’s release schedule shows no sign of letting up in 2013, with the fifth edition in the series expected early March. ‘The Well Rounded Rebel Alliance’ will follow after this, including the three way collaboration between Donga, Blake & Richter ‘Skeleton Grin’ that kicks off Dom’s mix for us. 

Spanning forty-five minutes, the mix explores many of the areas 877 promote themselves, including tracks from XXXY, Kry Wolf & French Fries alongside several 877 exclusive dubs.

**Tracklist**

  1. Skeleton Grin // Donga, Blake & Richter [Forthcoming 877]
  2. I Know // Natan H & Amy Jean [Forthcoming Man Make Music]
  3. The Fall // Copy Paste Soul [2 Swords]
  4. Zoé Zoe // Org [Unreleased]
  5. 828 // GoldFFinch [Unreleased  Dub)
  6. Crispy Duck // Dense & Pika [Hotflush]
  7. Do It Right // Dom 877 [Forthcoming 877]
  8. The Verdict Part 2 // Shadow Child [Food Music]
  9. Horizon // Ejeca [Needwant]
  10. No Go // Ghosts On Tape [Ice Hot]
  11. Sex Go Round // Jaimeson [Jaimeson]
  12. The Flood // Kry Wolf [Food Music]
  13. Ganja // French Fries Remix [Hyperdub]
  14. No More Sunshine // Toyboy & Robin [Sccucci Manucci]
  15. The Grid // My Nu Leng [877 Records]
  16. Got Me So // XXXY [Forthcoming Rinse]
  17. Phat Jak // Gangster, Mobster Dubaholics Ska Mix [Public Demand]

[Subscribe in iTunes](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/stray-landings-mix-series/id556425050?mt=2)