---
title: "0079"
who: Morgen Wurde
image_upload: ""
image: http://c1.staticflickr.com/5/4360/36173341633_43d92d8092_h.jpg
blockquote: "The latest in our mix series comes Wolfgang Röttger, perhaps better known as Morgen Wurde. Röttger has had a prolific career over the last few years, releasing three records of intense dark-ambient jazz experiments. The term 'ambient-jazz' is maybe the sort of thing to turn many stomachs. Bringing to mind pot-smoking, ponytails and polo necks. But there has been some major contributions from the genre. Miles Davis' _Bitches Brew_ arguably started it all, and remember the dark soundscapes of Bohren & Der Club of Gore and Angelo Badalamenti's decade-defining soundtrack to _Twin Peaks_. Moreover, not all of it is sappy or sentimental. Wolf Eyes and Okkyung Lee have been fusing noise and improv to make jazz transgressive again. "
author: Georgie_McVicar
---
The latest in our mix series comes Wolfgang Röttger, perhaps better known as Morgen Wurde. Röttger has had a prolific career over the last few years, releasing three records of intense dark-ambient jazz experiments. The term 'ambient-jazz' is maybe the sort of thing to turn many stomachs. Bringing to mind pot-smoking, ponytails and polo necks. [Niiiice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-jHzdMo-YCc). 

But there has been some major contributions from the genre. Miles Davis' _Bitches Brew_ arguably started it all, and remember the dark soundscapes of Bohren & Der Club of Gore and Angelo Badalamenti's decade-defining soundtrack to _Twin Peaks_. Moreover, not all of it is sappy or sentimental. Wolf Eyes and Okkyung Lee have been fusing noise and improv to make jazz transgressive again. 

With much of this stuff, a real or imaged visual element is often suggested. Listeners frequently cite Italian cinema, barren landscapes and dimly lit streets. Indeed, Röttger's latest record, _Assassinous Act_, soundtracks a fictional film noir. The package for [_Assassinous Act_](https://timereleasedsound.bandcamp.com/album/assassinous-act) comes complete with a fake "crime kit": fingerprint cards, numbered toe tags and mugshots. All presented in a sepia-toned wartime aesthetic. The idea is to listen through the album whilst solving this contrived whodunnit. But what's wrong with a little bit of youthful novelty anyway? 

The mix that Röttger recorded for us is no less conceptual, featuring a selection of his favourite 'wind' music. Trumpets and sax feature heavily, often somber and alone against an unsettling backdrop of noise and atmospherics. If, like me, your knowledge of jazz has something to be desired, then much (all) of this tracklisting will look unfamiliar. Just try to push those ponytails to the back of your mind and get stuck in. 

**Tracklist:**

Foltz, Turner, Carrothers - Crosses <br>
Sonik Teatar (Damir Bacikin & Nikola Jeremic) - Noise 2 <br>
Satoko Fujii & Natsuki Tamura - Dune and Star <br>
Heinz Sauer & Michael Wollny - Seven Sharp <br>
Di Domenico, Henriksen, Yamamoto - Mlouk <br>
Per Jørgensen, Jon Balke, Audun Kleive - Blind Owl <br>
Nils Petter Molvaer - Perimeters <br>
Colorlist - Montreal <br>
Arve Henriksen - Saraswati <br>
Rone feat. Toshinori Kondo - Acid Reflux <br>
SaffronKeira + Mario Massa - Pity <br>
Evan Caminiti - Tied Limbs <br>
Morgen Wurde feat. Toby Mak - Wandlung zeigte <br>
Tetsuroh Konishi - Kemuri no michi (Road of Incense) <br>
Seven Saturdays - Love in the Time of Anticipated Defeat <br>
Morgen Wurde feat. Tetsuroh Konishi - Schreitet fort <br>

<iframe width="100%" height="120" src="https://www.mixcloud.com/widget/iframe/?hide_cover=1&light=1&feed=%2Fstraylandings%2F0079-morgen-wurde%2F" frameborder="0" ></iframe>