---
title: "002"
who: 'Ill Life [Ever Decreasing Circles]'
link: http://www.straylandings.co.uk/post/31455359274
image: http://farm9.staticflickr.com/8445/7982115066_099b56d2a8_z.jpg
blockquote: One of the most positive aspects of the re-emergence of techno in the UK is a deeper and more concentrated effort on textural merit and sound design. 
image_upload: ""
---

One of the most positive aspects of the re-emergence of techno in the UK is a deeper and more concentrated effort on textural merit and sound design.   
  
One producer exploiting this concentration on the more detailed aspects of the genre is  Sam Iliffe aka ‘Ill Life’. The Cambridge based producer builds his music from the foundations of classic house and techno, whilst retaining a forward-thinking perspective. Iliffe appears to have a positive future ahead of him after churning out four brilliant productions in just a few months.   
  
Perhaps the strongest of these is his most recent offering, 002 (Ever Decreasing Circles). It’s intro employs nicely processed atmos tones, sequenced to a familiar techno rhythm. Initially, the tune feels like a late night/early morning stomper, yet the organic rhythmic element leading the track gives a relaxed and understated mid-mix feel. The creation of this sound, through an obvious command of synthesis or audio manipulation is impressive, outlining Sam’s quick acclimatisation to a high level of production.

Overall, the track feels welcomely detached from the usual generic synthesized sounds and presets, instead exploring deeper, more rugged textures, often put to use by the likes of Lucy, Perc or Tommy Four Seven. Techno of this nature, where the sounds used are fresh, new and original are doing a great deal to sustain a genre that has been running for well over twenty years.

<iframe frameborder="no" height="166" scrolling="no" src="http://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F58270409&show_artwork=true" width="100%"></iframe>